Why you did so bad on your undergrad scores?
    I have to answer it properly. Instead of explaining why it happens, I would rather like to discuss about, what I've learned from this experience, and somehow it can answer why this happens.

    I'm always criticizing myself that why I did so awful in my undergrad. Finally, I conclude two important things that I've learned from this experience. First, make a concrete goal in every stage of my life. Second, find the motivation.

    When I was in undergrad, to be honest, I have no goal to my life, and I have no motivation about what I'm doing. For example, when the first time I learn linear algebra, I have no ideea why should I learn it. It turns out to my awful performance of my undergrad scores.

    Things got to change in my junior year, when the first time I learned machine learning. I realize like the techniques in linear algebra is helpful for proving important property for machine leanring. There is an example like finding the pseudo-inverse of a matrix is identical to optimize a linear regression problems.

    It is impressive and well-motivated. 

    So now everytime I did something, I start to think, what is my goal, and what is the motivation. And now, I believe everything has changed

Why do you want to study phd degree?

    As you might realize in my resume, before I join Frank's research group as a research assistant, I was a machine learning engineer in a taiwanese forum, called Dcard, which is like a tawianese reddit. and I am responsible for the recommender system.

    When I joined Dcard, it is the time that Large Language Models like ChatGPT is showing that what they can do. In our company, we also have brainstorm to discuss about the use case of LLM in our platform.

    But we soonly realize that it is not that easy to apply for our product, and we have totally no idea how can we fix it. We know that we need to do research on it to figure it out, but a crucial fact is that it can not make profit, so we has no reason to invest time on it.

    It is the first time that I think I'm not suitable to the company.

    There are some limitations for taiwanese companies to do research


    The second time that made me confirm to quit the job is the time I joined CVPR23 in Vancouver. It was amazing. we heard many interesting research about diffusion models, or vision language models.

What are you intersted in?

    I am quite intersted in the video synthesis and generation. In my opinion, there are two important things to be addressed. That is quality and efficiency. Most of people focus on the high quality video, ignoring the lengthy time for generation. However, in our lab, with limited resources, I think it is important to speed up the process of video generation. Regarding the efficient text-to-image generation, there are about 4 papers that are talking about one-step diffusion generation. The overall idea is to distill knowledge from a pre-trained diffusion models, such as stable diffusion. It has reaches impressive performance that they can generate high quality images in a few miliseconds. But it is a distilled model, it remains unclear how to apply this distilled models for more complicated video generation tasks.


What about your past research experience?
    In my graduate research, I study domain adapation. It is a classic settings with many robust solutions. We found that, most of the idea in domain adaptation is to adapt data from target domain to the source domain. It is natural, because we can train a great model in source domain. When I first approach with this problem, I came up with another idea like, instead of adapting target data to the source data, can we adapt source data to the target data?

    In continual learning, we first notice that, vision language models such as clip have great zero-shot generalization ability. However, if we continually fine-tune CLIP to several downstream tasks, it is not able to preserve the knowledge it has fine-tuned before, and the zero-shot genralization ability will degrade.

    Our goal is to design a fine-tuning algorithms that can not only preserve its previously fine-tuned knowledge, and the original pre-trained knowledge.

    overall, we distill knowledge from two teacher models, the first is the original pre-trained clip, which help preserve the zero-shot ability. and the second is the most recent fine-tuned model, which can help preserve previously fine-tuned knowledge.